[KIDS chattering]
[BOY 40A]
Look at him go!
[BOY 40B]
Wait, who is that kid?
That is the Koito
family's second son.
A spoiled rich kid.
[gasps]
[MAN grunts]
Watch where you're
walking, idiot!
Are you trying to die?
[gasps]
[MAN growls, yells]
[MAN]
Stop this bike now!
[KOITO screams]
Who the hell do you
think you are, huh?
Don't you know who I am?
I'm the son of
Commander Heiji Koito!
You're gonna regret
this, I promise you!
Nobody treats me like that!
If you wanna fight,
then do it yourself.
Don't hide behind
your family name.
Hey, old geezer!
Give me your cane!
[OLD MAN 40A]
Yes, right away!
[KOITO yells]
[OLD MAN 40A gasps]
[OLD MAN 40A yelping]
The form of your
swing was straight
and beautiful to behold.
Huh. What's wrong?
What happened to all
that fire you had?
Surprised I could stop your
Jingen-style swordsmanship
with my bare hands?
Or perhaps, that
was the first time
you've ever had a grown-up
slap you in your face.
Honestly, both.
[chuckles]
[TSURUMI] This vehicle is
fascinating. Is it yours?
[KOITO] No, my father
got it from someone
he knows in France.
So then you've taken it without
permission? That's not right.
No one cares.
I see.
By the way, do you know where
I can find the gravesite
of Takamori Saigou?
Oh, you're a tourist?
Come on, I can show you the way.
[KOITO] That one over
there is Saigou's grave.
[TSURUMI] Thanks,
you saved me a long walk.
The view here is nice.
Are you hungry?
[TSURUMI]
Anpan from Tsukisappu.
[KOITO]
What do you mean by Tsukisappu?
Well, it's the name of the place
where this anpan was made.
So what's good to
eat in Kagoshima?
[KOITO]
Hmm...
Sakurajima daikon radishes?
[TSURUMI]
Hm?
May I ask whose grave that is?
My brother's.
He was pale, just like Mom.
So I always called him
a Sakurajima daikon.
But he'd never get mad at me.
He was a very kind person.
I should've been
the one who died.
That sounds hard.
You should let out what's
building up inside you.
[KOITO]
No. It's fine.
You're a stranger.
I don't wanna burden
you with my problems.
You aren't a burden
at all, young man.
You may believe it's your duty
to fill the hole your brother
left, but I disagree.
[KOITO gasps]
[TSURUMI]
Ensign Heinojou Koito.
Died on September 17,
Meiji Year 27.
I believe that was during
the Battle of the
Yalu River, correct?
Yes, my brother was 13
years older than me.
I was only eight at the time.
He was assigned to
the Matsushima .
He died when a shot
from a Chinese cannon
hit its starboard side.
I heard that my father
saw it happen firsthand
from a nearby ship.
And he just stared
in complete silence.
After he came back from the war,
he would never scold me.
But he also stopped
smiling at me.
I can only imagine the kind
of pain he felt that day.
How horrible it must have been.
To know he was dying
but be unable to help.
Some of the sailors
burned to death
while others were blown
to pieces by cannons.
I overheard some of my
classmates talking about it.
[KOITO]
Now, whenever I'm on a ship,
I just can't help but think
about how my brother died.
And then I start to feel
sick to my stomach.
And if I can't be on a ship
for more than a day,
who in their right mind would
ever let me be a naval officer?
[KOITO] Soon, my brother won't
have any more visitors.
My father's post is being moved,
so our family is
going to Hakodate.
Hakodate, huh? I bet that
you'll like it there.
It's more similar to Sakurajima
than you might think.
And you'll still have a
beautiful view over the port
from the mountains.
Have you been to
Hakodate before?
[TSURUMI] Tsukisappu actually
comes from that region.
[TSURUMI]
Thank you. Till next time.
Will there be a next time?
If we do get a chance
to meet again,
it just means heaven's
telling us to be friends.
And who are we to
try to defy fate?
[MAN 40A] That's Captain
Koito's second son.
[MAN 40B] I heard he
was a troublemaker
back in naval academy.
He's going to take the naval
officer's exam, isn't he?
Though I don't see
how he'd ever pass.
That spoiled rich kid.
[gasps]
What's wrong with you?!
Get out of the way, idiot!
[YUKI] So tell me
more about this man
that the army is sending
out to help us.
What kind of a person
is he exactly?
[NAKAYAMA] He's an
extremely talented member
of Tsukisappu's special forces.
He's fluent in Russian, too.
By all accounts,
he's the only man for the job.
We'll have to see.
It's surprising to hear that no
one in the Navy speaks Russian.
[HEIJI]
Hm?
I'm Lieutenant Tsurumi,
from the army.
I hope you'll forgive me for
coming in through the back door.
Before we continue, I would like
to have the curtains closed.
It won't matter what our plan
is if anyone off the street
can just look in and
see what we're doing.
[NAKAYAMA] We spotted
Otonoshin's motorcycle
within the grounds of
the Russian embassy.
It appears it was
abandoned there.
The Russian Embassy is
uninhabited in the summer.
We didn't actually go inside,
but from what we saw,
it was empty.
I'm not surprised.
They'd never keep him in
such an obvious location.
What do they want?
Why would they take our son?
If these kidnappers
were only after money,
there are far better targets.
My primary concern is
whether Russia is involved.
That would lead to a
complicated situation.
[HEIJI]
Hmm...
[CRIMINAL 40A speaking Russian]
[KOITO] I don't speak Russian.
Do you know Japanese?
[CRIMINAL 40A speaking Russian]
[KOITO]
I'm the son of a naval officer.
And with Russia
getting more active,
I knew tensions were rising.
Could my kidnapping
have something to do
with my father's work?
After all, he's the overseer
for the Oominato Torpedo Group,
which is close to
being completed.
My father would never
give in to demands
from the Russian army.
Especially for me.
[TSURUMI] If the Russians want
to move the Vladivostok fleet
through the Tsugaru Straight
towards the Pacific,
the Oominato Torpedo Group
and Fort Hakodate
both present a serious
threat to them.
Right now, there are
torpedo boats
stationed at the Hakodate port.
They're battle-ready and waiting
to be deployed to Oominato.
If the kidnappers
are Russian operatives,
we can assume that their goal is
to have those boats destroyed,
thus temporarily neutralizing
the threat to their own fleet.
But wait, shouldn't
we have received
some kind of ransom note by now?
Why would they take so long?
[TSURUMI]
Hmm.
Good point. That is strange.
Let's try to make
them tip their hand.
[phone ringing]
The call is coming from inside!
Please, calm down!
Calm down? That could
be the kidnappers!
Yes. In fact,
I bet that is them.
But think, the timing
is too perfect.
Clearly, the Russian Embassy
is being watched.
That's why we should pretend
that we didn't
hear it and leave.
We must remain two steps ahead
of the kidnappers at all times.
If we make one wrong move,
it's all over for Otonoshin.
You have to stay strong
for him, Captain Koito.
[grumbles]
[TSURUMI]
There are 320 buildings
with telephones in Hakodate.
If we eliminate those
outside binocular range
of the Russian Embassy--
as well as public facilities--
that still leaves over
50 potential locations
for our kidnappers to hide in.
We can't just barge into
each place one by one.
Something that overt would let
them know we're on to them.
We'll have to be careful.
When we're ready, we'll go back
to the Russian Embassy.
And when they call us again,
we'll have them put on Otonoshin
so we know he's safe.
Afterwards, we'll work with
a telephone operator
and find out their number.
Please bring him back.
We'll do all that we can.
So you must not give up hope
that he'll make it through this.
The phone is located over there.
We're also ready to answer
Captain Koito's phone at home.
[TSURUMI]
Luckily, the Russian Embassy
stands on a hill near
Mount Hakodate.
It overlooks the town
and is easily visible.
The telephone exchange
shuts down at 1900.
After that, there'll be no more
calls until the next morning.
Now that everything's in place,
let's turn on the lights
to let them know we're here.
[HEIJI] I know that the
kidnappers may demand
I give up Fort Hakodate
or sabotage the Oominato
Torpedo Group.
If I give in to them--
if I show weakness--
the Russian fleet will begin
their assault immediately.
Which will trigger a war.
And hundreds of thousands--
no, potentially even millions
of Japanese people
will die for my selfishness.
So I've decided...
...that my son will have to die.
[CRIMINAL 40B speaking Russian]
[KOITO]
This is...
[CRIMINAL 40A speaking Russian]
[TSURUMI]
It's almost 0600 hours.
The exchange will open soon.
I have men on standby
around the city.
They'll start the raid
as soon as we find the
kidnappers' number.
A word of warning.
There's a chance they'll figure
out our plan and try to escape.
Speed is of the
utmost importance.
We can't let them slip
through our fingers.
[HEIJI]
Lieutenant Tsurumi, I thank you.
But if these kidnappers
think I'd betray the navy,
or that I would ever
destroy my own fleet
for the sake of my son,
then they've underestimated me.
Otonoshin's still a child.
I doubt he'll understand.
It's fine if he
ends up hating me.
If it comes to it,
I'll tell him myself.
He must die for the
good of the country.
I commend you.
You are a true samurai, sir.
[phone ringing]
[WOMAN 40A]
Hello. Good morning.
Is this number 18?
[TSURUMI]
Yes.
[WOMAN 40A] I'm putting
you through right now.
[CRIMINAL 40A]
The fort. And the ships.
[CRIMINAL 40A speaking Russian]
He's demanding that we destroy
the fort as well as the fleet.
[grumbles]
Just as we thought.
[speaking Russian]
[HEIJI]
Otonoshin.
[gasps]
[KOITO]
Father!
[HEIJI]
Listen to me.
I won't do as they ask. I can't.
I couldn't be like my brother!
For that, I'm sorry!
So please, pretend
I was never born!
Just forget me!
[KOITO yells]
Exchange! What's their number?
[WOMAN 40A]
Oh, right! It's number 144.
All right! Starting now, don't
connect any other calls to 144!
I can't find the number!
Where is it?
It's not on the list of
locations we drew up!
If I remember right, 144 was
an army training facility.
But it hasn't been
used for months now.
There's only one place
like that in Hakodate.
Yes.
Goryoukaku!
[NAKAYAMA] But that's over
six kilometers away!
We'll never make it!
Signal your men to
head straight there!
By the time we're able
to relay the information,
it may well be too late.
If we wanna help Otonoshin,
we have to go there ourselves!
[NAKAYAMA]
Come on! Let's go!
What? Now Our horses can't run
down such a steep hill!
I know. But we
don't have a choice!
I'm coming, Otonoshin!
Captain Koito!
[TSURUMI]
Hmph.
We have a tail.
I'll bet he was keeping an
eye on the Russian Embassy.
And since he can't get a call
through to Goryoukaku,
he has to go in person.
We can't let him beat
us there. Go faster!
[WOMEN gasp]
[TSURUMI]
Pardon me, sir.
How do you like that?
[horse whinnies]
[TSURUMI]
Watch out!
[HEIJI]
Otonoshin!
[TSURUMI]
We made it to Goryoukaku!
[CRIMINAL 40A speaking Russian]
I'll sneak around back and
see if I can find a way in.
Try to draw their
attention to this side.
Just kill me!
If I can die in battle, too,
then maybe my father
will finally respect me.
[CRIMINALS gasp]
Where are you, Otonoshin?
Is that you? You came!
[clicks tongue]
[speaking Russian]
Let him--!
No, Father!
Please, no!
[door opens]
Wait, you're--
Look at that.
Fate wanted us to meet.
You're awake!
I'm glad to see
that you're okay.
You fought well,
my boy. I'm proud.
[TSURUMI] I shot one of
them on the way here,
along with these two.
I'm sure that even
if we identified them,
it would be pretty much
impossible for us
to connect them to the
Russian government.
The stuff they fed me
was Tsukisappu anpan .
Exactly like the
ones you gave me.
I can still remember the
taste from back then.
Ah, yes.
Well, anpan is a treat that only
the 25th Infantry Regiment
got to enjoy regularly.
You know, this place actually
used to be an army post.
Someone must have
forgotten it here.
I hope it didn't make you sick.
I can't believe it!
First you let me try anpan ,
and now you came to
save me from kidnappers!
This has to be fate!
It appears that we've
been brought together
by the power of
Tsukisappu anpan .
Ow! Indeed!
[ALL laughing]
[HEIJI] He wanted to go to
the army officer's school.
It seems he's changed his mind
about joining the navy.
He passed the exam, too!
There's not much I can say.
Besides, as long as he
becomes an officer,
it doesn't matter if
he's on land or at sea.
I hope that you'll take care
of Otonoshin for me.
You needn't worry
at all, Captain Koito.
I have a feeling that one day,
your son will be an
important figure,
who will be able to bring
the army and navy together.
Thanks for this opportunity,
Lieutenant Tsurumi!
I promise to try my hardest
to learn from you, sir!
And I'll become an
exemplary officer
under your expert command!
I'm looking forward to it!
[TSURUMI] Feeling just a
little nervous, are we?
Oh, by the way.
I thought that you might
find this interesting.
We identified the kidnappers.
All three of them
were Russian sailors.
They had been arrested for
robbery and murder in Otaru.
But somehow, they
disappeared from prison.
We're still looking into how
they managed to escape.
I see. Just like I thought.
[KOITO sighs]
Lieutenant Tsurumi's amazing.
Yes.
[OGATA speaking Russian]
[NARRATOR]
Next time: "Cinematograph"!